---
title: "leetcode_1212:Team Scores in Football Tournament"
date: 2025-06-05
categories: [sql코테]
tags: []
toc: true
toc_label: "Table of contents"
toc_icon: "cog"
---

문제 상황은 다음과 같다


| Column Name | Type    |
|-------------|---------|
| team_id     | int     |
| team_name   | varchar |

team_id is the column with unique values of this table.
Each row of this table represents a single football team.
 

Table: Matches


| Column Name   | Type    |
|---------------|---------|
| match_id      | int     |
| host_team     | int     |
| guest_team    | int     | 
| host_goals    | int     |
| guest_goals   | int     |

match_id is the column of unique values of this table.
Each row is a record of a finished match between two different teams. 
Teams host_team and guest_team are represented by their IDs in the Teams table (team_id), and they scored host_goals and guest_goals goals, respectively.
 

You would like to compute the scores of all teams after all matches. Points are awarded as follows:
A team receives three points if they win a match (i.e., Scored more goals than the opponent team).
A team receives one point if they draw a match (i.e., Scored the same number of goals as the opponent team).
A team receives no points if they lose a match (i.e., Scored fewer goals than the opponent team).
Write a solution that selects the team_id, team_name and num_points of each team in the tournament after all described matches.

Return the result table ordered by num_points in decreasing order. In case of a tie, order the records by team_id in increasing order.

### 처음 접근했던 방식

미리 Matches 테이블에서 홈 팀들의 승점을 계산하고 어웨이 팀들의 승점을 계산해서 이를 Join하는 방식을 쓰려했다.
하지만, 틀렸던 부분은 Mysql에서는 Full Outer Join이 조금 난해하고 Teams Table의 어떤 팀들은 Matches 테이블에 속해 있지 않을 수 있다.

### 정답 

~~~sql
--- 정답 쿼리
SELECT
  t.team_id,
  t.team_name,
  COALESCE(a.num_points, 0) AS num_points
FROM Teams AS t
LEFT JOIN (
  -- 4번에서 구한 팀별 합계
  SELECT team_id, SUM(pts) AS num_points
  FROM (
    SELECT host_team AS team_id,
           CASE 
             WHEN host_goals > guest_goals THEN 3
             WHEN host_goals = guest_goals THEN 1
             ELSE 0
           END AS pts
    FROM Matches
    UNION ALL
    SELECT guest_team AS team_id,
           CASE 
             WHEN guest_goals > host_goals THEN 3
             WHEN guest_goals = host_goals THEN 1
             ELSE 0
           END AS pts
    FROM Matches
  ) AS combined
  GROUP BY team_id
) AS a
ON t.team_id = a.team_id
ORDER BY num_points DESC, t.team_id ASC;
